A web based online Library system with end to end functionalities using MySQL for backend and HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, PHP for the front end.

The website was designed to replicate a library system.
There are two user types for the system, admin and library patron.
The functionality for the library patrons will include the ability to browse the library catalog, save searches, place holds, and create list of books that he or she is interested in. The admin on the other hand will be able to check out books on behalf of the patron and maintain the books in the catalog including editing, adding, and deleting books in the system. The system is built to reflect a library system that has more than one branch, and has several types of material: physical books, movies, and magazines. In the creation of the system, several assumptions were made. Firstly, the only way for a patron to check out a book is for the admin to log in and check out the book on their behalf.
Experiment 8: Change specification and use any SCM Tool to make different
versions for the project
Learning Objective: 
Students will able to create versions using Github tool
Tools:
Github
Software configuration management: The traditional software configuration management (SCM) 
process  is  looked  upon  by  practitioners  as  the  best  solution  to  handling  changes  in  software 
projects. It identifies the functional and physical attributes of softwa
re at various points in time, 
and  performs  systematic  control  of  changes  to  the  identified  attributes  for  the  purpose  of 
maintaining software integrity and traceability throughout the software development life cycle.
Software configuration management is a
part of software engineering, which focuses mainly on 
maintaining, tracking and controlling the changes done to the software configuration items.
Configuration  management  is  present  in  all  phase  of  software  development.  The  configuration 
items can be all 
the objects which come as an output of the development process e.g. coding phase 
produces source code, exes and obj files. The various configuration items can be:
1.
Source code,
2.
Documents
3.
Data used in the
programs
In Configuration management, there can be multiple versions created for any configuration item 
(Source code/ documents). Each version can be identified by unique configuration or an attribute 
which is associated with each version. E.g. the version number.

Terminologies used in version control
1.
SCI 
–
Software configuration items, i.e. the documents and code which will be having version 
number and
saved.
2.
Repository
-
it is the system where all the SCIs will be
stored.
3.
Check in
-
to store the tested and quali
fied source
code.
4.
Checkout
-
to get a copy of the stored SCI from the
repository

5.
Add 
–
Add to the local repo and keep ready for
commit
6.
Commit
-
to save the file in repository and create a
version
Advantages
1)
The versions are stored in the repository; hence they are available as
backups.
2)
Multiple people can work simultaneously on same files/source code, without losing the 
changes made by
other
developers
3)
It is easy to find the files with specifications as a versions are stored with version
numbers
GitHub  offers  all  of  the 
distributed  revision  control 
and 
source  code  management 
(SCM) 
functionality of 
Git 
as well as adding its own features. Unlike Git, which is strictly a 
command
-
line 
tool,  GitHu
b  provides  a 
Web
-
based  graphical  interface 
and  desktop  as  well  as  mobile 
integration. It also provides 
access control 
and sever
al collaboration features such as 
bug
tracking
, 
feature requests
, 
task management 
for every project
